>> Jon Kuperman: So outside of labels and
descriptions, ARIA also provides roles,
states and properties.
So roles are really important and
we've kind of discussed them a little bit
before when we were making the div into
a button by giving it a role of button.
But these roles can be
applied to any HTML element.
And here are just a few examples, but they
can be like gifts of the role of button or
checkbox or tree, banner, an autocomplete,
or some button that has a popup.
These are basically indications that
speak directly to the screen reader.
And the screen reader can
kind of help guide the user.
So if you were in a situation where
you had to make a custom checkbox, but
they had checkbox functionality, these
ARIA roles can go a long way with helping
the screen reader tell the user how to
expect to interact with this thing,
like which hotkeys?
Or is there text required to enter, or
is it just an on off interaction,
things like that.
ARIA can also be used in CSS,
which is pretty cool.
So these ARIA properties are very
similar to data attributes in CSS.
You can use them in your CSS selectors.
So one really nice thing, like when
you're building kind of like trees or
navigation or something like that,
you can have the ARIA roles saying which
one is expanded or
which one's not expanded.
So as a screen reader,
user tabs through, it'll say first item,
headphones not expanded,
monitors expanded, whatever it is.
And then you can use those same data tags,
those ARIA tags in your CSS to
do something like maybe display a little
content arrow or something like that.
So ARIA is completely
interoperable with CSS.
Any ARIA attribute or role you apply,
you can reach in CSS and
apply styles accordingly.
One of my absolute favorite
things with ARIA and
what our next exercise will be on,
is this concept of ARIA live regions.
And so this has become more and
more true over
the years that you have these
applications that are extremely dynamic.
One use case that I often give is like,
imagine you're using your Uber
app to book a ride, right?
There's all these different states and
some of them require immediate user
attention and other ones don't.
So for example, your driver's 10 minutes
away, now your driver's nine minutes away.
You don't really need to alert
a user via a screen reader or
assistive technology of that.
Something has changed and
it's worth having visually, and
maybe it is worth announcing,
but it's not vital, right?
Whereas, your driver is here is
an action that is extremely important.
And from the visual side
of the application,
we often don't distinguish these things,
right?
Visually we just change every
minute that they get closer.
We change when they're here, but
we don't really call one out
over the other one necessarily.
Maybe sometimes we do,
the ARIA spec provides this ability to
mark elements as containing live data so
that screen readers can read
out updates as they come in.
So back to the Uber app,
you could take a few different fields.
You could take the minutes away, you could
take the your driver is here field, and
maybe you could take the we found
a driver for you field, and
you can mark all of those
as ARIA live regions.
Meaning that when you use JavaScript to
update those, like an API call comes in
and you update it, the screen reader will
interrupt what's currently going on and
alert the user, hey,
your driver's here now, things like that.
So these are pretty simple, but pretty
powerful APIs where you can build really,
really cool, accessible experiences for
big, dynamic applications.
One of the reasons Live Regions is
one of my favorite APIs is because
the property that goes into
it is called politeness,
which I find a really funny name for
a setting.
So basically you get three options.
You make an ARIA live region and then
you set either assertive, polite or off.
Assertive means interrupt whatever
you're doing right now and announce.
This, I think would be great for
your driver is here, right,
nothing else is as important as that.
Polite would be maybe what you would use,
announce it, but
when the screen reader next idles.
So if the screen reader's
currently reading a paragraph,
it'll wait until that paragraph is
finished and then let you know.
So maybe keeping in our kind of Uber
example, maybe this would be a good thing
when your driver is one minute
closer than they were before.
Only if the app is idling, say, hey,
now they're only seven minutes away.
And then off, you can toggle these
things to not read the update.
So maybe lots of different examples here,
but maybe the user interacts in some way
and says, okay, I don't care about that
anymore, we could turn off these things.
So you get this ARIA Live region, you pick
the kind of politeness setting that you
want, and then from then on, the screen
reader will know to watch those areas and
update by reading out the new
value as updates come in.
So another example that we could
imagine this is very good for
is like imagine some sports application,
right?
And this keeps track of all your
favorite teams and their matches and
their scores or something like that.
And people really like to watch these
live in real time while the matches
are going on.
And so you could imagine you have
this app, this HTML and you have some
JavaScript and the JavaScript's hitting
an API or maybe it's got web sockets and
it's getting pushed new information and
then it's updating the UI.
For a visual experience,
it's very good as it is, but
maybe you add some comes in big or
there's an explosion or
it comes in green and
then it settles, something like that.
So how do we make an equally good
experience for non sighted users, for
people using screen readers?
And you can think about ways that
you could use live regions for this.
So if you were to take those regions
like where the scores are or
where the latest news article is,
or where the latest update is.
And you were to wrap those in live
regions, like we can see at the top div
ARIA Live polite, then that means that
anything inside of there, when it changes,
when the markup changes, the values
will be read out loud to the user.
So I think these are pretty creative.
You can start thinking of different
combinations like maybe this is polite and
this is assertive, or
maybe the whole thing is assertive.
Again, I think basically the ARIA bit
here has the functionality that it has.
And then it's up to you, playing with
the JavaScript to change the DOM at
the cadence that you want,
with the values that you want.
And whatever you change it to,
ARIA will read that.